---
title: "The Light of the Mega City: Experiences and Prospects of Land Finance Transformation in the Context of Land Resources Depletion of Mega City Construction — Based on NPP-VIIRS Night Light Remote Sensing Data and Field Research in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-12-01-MC
classes: wide
---
Land finance, or land finance as it is also known, has long been controversial. Proponents argue that land finance has explained the rapid growth of China's economy over the past four decades and is a key factor in China's rapid accumulation of urbanization capital and the rapid achievement of urbanization in medium-sized developed countries; opponents argue that a series of current problems in China, such as high housing prices, unfair development, and misuse of resources, are all deeply or superficially related to land finance. This paper discusses the significance of land finance for China's urbanization, starting from the debate on land finance. On the basis of this, this paper investigates the utilization of land resources in mega-cities by using satellite remote sensing images and machine learning ideas, in view of the questions and discussions about the depletion of land resources and "no land for sale" in mega-cities. It is found that the land resource depletion of mega-cities has already arrived in a certain sense. In the context of land finance, should the financial model of megacities continue with the traditional logic of land finance or find another way out? Based on the perspective of land use and reuse, this paper offers one possibility: to promote the redistribution of fractional land resources from the macro level, and to allow mega-cities to adopt certain flexible measures and adaptations in land use. At the same time, this paper also responds to some challenges faced by the above process.

[Download paper here](http://huabing.li/files/Mega_City.pdf)